with the descent
inception the conference transitions thirsty for power and with socials to be
in colonia you the rich and role exams of the intelligence agency center in
public support of the states at the conamaq interest and john schneider
spanish there are lots of guys translation florencio merced
Puerto Rico is a Latin American nation militarily intervened
by the U.S. government since 1898 the geographic extent of our
territory in the city is just over 9000 square kilometers
However, we would be wrong if we conclude by this fact of the
occupation of our island is of minimal importance to the government
North American
this time the water is the minimum they can artistically study the
North American capital in Puerto Rico exceeds nine billion dollars
the fabulous profits made as a result of these investments are more
larger than those that would be obtained from the same investments made in the
continental United States in more specific terms Puerto Rico
constitutes the fifth US market in the world and the second in America.
economic interests of North American capital in our country
make up more than a third of all your interests in the rest of
latin america first than in code by wilber sanction
public velez
simply forward tried to simulate investments in the united states
national car to work and with arms for locating with these derogatory monies
uncheck the world on this tuesday market in america day that nothing tells me
this newspaper stands out for a temporary vacancy first to see if it mentioned
to America
one of the most important functions served by political and military intervention
what are we victims of
sorry one of the most important functions the intervention serves
political and military of which we are victims in economic exploitation but
again we would make a mistake if we limit
the importance of our colonial condition to the economic aspect
US imperialism has for years used Puerto Rico as a bridge for
penetration to the rest of Latin America and the world
[Music]
merkel world the intervention of the us government in
our country is of such magnitude
At the present time we can affirm that Puerto Rico is one of the countries
where more intelligence and repressive agencies
more US intelligence and law enforcement agencies operate across
the world the intelligence of the army and the navy operate in Puerto Rico
federal court operates openly and virtually all laws passed
by the US Congress they are applied in our country to this we must add the
made of the intelligence agencies of the colony administration its courts of
justice as well as the rest of its repressive apparatus the colonial administration
is receiving millions of dollars from
North American federal government through established programs directed
towards the repression by the us congress
these old penguins in addition to our clientele being presidents
in these questions we used to go to
joke about our luck saying the fbi operated in port
rich because he considered us part of the North American territory and the company
operated because it considered us as foreign territory now we are not
sure of them after the discovery of the domestic division
of the chair and its activities in the usa it is important that as much is possible
that both the chairs and the fbi agree that our island is a
territory belonging to the US government what is really important is
that we Puerto Ricans continue to consider ourselves a
intervened nation in Latin America
united states space
Carmen Sucart for the important derby that contains us conservation is from
within Latin America nation
the central intelligence agency as well as other agencies and instruments of
repression
used by the federal government in current Puerto Rico in every possible way
to stop the process of our people's struggle for their independence
national and what it represents in terms of our social justice
intervention at this time is aimed at demonstrating
what we have affirmed up to here said
in this month the severity of the operations of the cia
in our country do not lie solely in the fact that
whether it is an intelligence agency the intelligence agency in fact
They exist around the world and will unfortunately continue to exist
to the extent that the causes and the interests that make them prevail
function because the main problem with regard to the
Central Intelligence Agency
It is not the systems and methods that they use in their operation but to
who serves even those methods and those means that the chair uses are
determined precisely by the interests the agency serves
from business that is, it is presented with natural dyes tri water bacteria
intelligence agency in 36 exists it returns mechanical estimates to see
things within the project necessary also for the industrial intention
no one found out about media systems is progressive from Reuters and blindfolded goal of the
Minsa treatment is isolated in 312 of action sisters
the central intelligence agency in our country serves the powerful and
the interests that benefit from colonial intervention at the cost of life
and the work of the Puerto Rican workers jobs at the same time
as we mentioned before we are used as a territory of center of
operations in relation to the rest of Latin America and the world
we remember how we have been used as showcases of democracy like the anti cuba
However, this image that has been sold to Latin America is
deteriorates to the extent that our economy is deteriorating and
continuously develops the economy and social justice in the
sister republic of cuba said
in the system consists in the part of its board of directors tribal mini cooper
whose new fight the space world published our reality of the people
Latin America and our link to the rectum between
Latin America and the United States and the active struggle for the independence of Puerto Rico
during the present decade explains the scenario
where the activities of the
company in our country if we understand the interests of whom the chair serves
and who represents those interests in Puerto Rico we will be in a position to
understand why the agency operates so actively in our country
the first with people with this act and then it was independent
in place of attacker in the united states indicates menstruating present that 76
vertex bridges central eastern background in both they would be activated by
located the bottom extends between being green center during the transition cnt bodies
Inert in three swords swallowed by big nine entertainment supposedly
There are websites of 70 projects on the field, one of the things that first
does the chair where the conditions are given is to support the policy of the
parties that represent the status quo and protect the interests they serve
the chair an eloquent example of this is the support provided by the cia to the party
Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei in Chile
in our country it is a known fact that the cia supported the popular party
In the 1972 elections, the CIA channeled around one million
dollars in this party for its electoral campaign and the popular party
democratic won the elections
coverage for this maneuver was made possible through the holding of a
telemarathon where the so-called popular party supposedly connected more than one
million and a half dollars in less than 10 hours
however we look at it, it is impossible to collect this amount of
money in that kind of activity in our country in the end of time
that we have pointed out later, it was widely known that
agencies used banks located in the Bahamas to provide these funds
well later I have the video that sells that indecency this strong public for
that are unnecessary which would begin in reserve from Aden if at some time they
give your body to say wordpress is a matter of improving oriental in minor
quantity on offer said this power of the party to improve therefore do not try
ability collections destinations should guide the entities that is why our
camping in the role of best actor ewan elections then I had a blast
salvation having left a marathon today on paper for this film fear of a
friend in current energy in weston has webs
never once is the government established or
the colonial administration that has been supported by the cia agency guarantees
that its policy is implemented under the placement of agents and creating their
own ties with this government there should be no doubts about the particular
in us after the conception of josé figueres he is president of costa
rich to the effect that collaborating collaborated with the cia for more than 20 years even when
he was president of the republic well surely colonial
administration many advantages for two stable days following direction are given
returned performance implements in wellington van swieten notably
from normal vitoria remember that I started and got off
figueres expression in the americas this color defect said they smoke in 33 and
I come to those who question those of favor in Puerto Rico to cite a single
example during the administration of governor roberto sánchez vilella de
From 1964 to 68 his main assistant was a CIA agent, it is no secret that he
prominent Puerto Rican professor and lawyer Juan Manuel García
Passalacqua was in charge of this liaison function between the guides and the
colonial administration of Puerto Rico while serving as an assistant
Special Governor Sánchez Vilella himself has privately mentioned the
problems he encountered during his administration as a result of the
intervention of the follow in the same in public wang that is that binner
Alberto Sánchez Elías costs 60 yen nights in sixth place explains seeing
Well, it said yesterday in the senate andrés secret
onewest and passalacqua support in by locating a very good teacher who would
next especially existing debate of the former constant violence candle is
maintain part pavón following division of printing and interventions of
administration despite the activity of the company and
other intelligence agencies and repressive our fight for the
Independence continues to develop stronger and stronger as a result of
This increases the activity of the agency the practice of the CIA
falsify documents related to organizations to which you fight is
widely known, this practice has been used in Puerto Rico since the
beginning at least the 60's before the electoral strike campaign
carried out by the pro-independence movement, the historical predecessor of the
Puerto Rican socialist party documents favoring at that time
electoral participation and signed by groups by supposed groups of the mp and
appeared, it was then immediately verified that these documents were
false and that said groups did not exist in the same way in 1967 false documents
signed on behalf of the youth of the pro-independence movement were
circulated internationally by the IACHR
inspire bag
Strike extensions to depend only on havoc can be your
computer and consoles wii sports and wii
descriptions
in this session
journalists have been very upset on many occasions by the use that the company
has made their profession as coverage in Puerto Rico not only have they used the
profession but they control news agencies completely the only
news agencies that operate in our country are unit press
international and associated press the international united press office in
sant web cannot publish anything that happens in the organization of the
United Nations related to Puerto Rico without the specific permission of the
new york office and it is not a mere inner workings of the
agency
communication
it is then web rating this is the result of the penetration
of the cia in the news media in the country we must add, for example, that the
most of the country's newspapers are part of this censorship campaign
in relation to our case in the united nations
we will briefly return to the penetration of the cia in the media
mass communication Puerto Rico when we talk about the current operation that
develops the agency in relation to the union movement at this time
connections organization rests more communications medium
current moment strong pressures by no means
sometimes there are works that the official instruments of repression do not
they must not want or cannot carry out the cia intervenes in these cases the help
given by the agency to the right-wing organization Patria Libertad in Chile is
widely known the cia has supported right-wing paramilitary groups in
Puerto Rico these groups originated from the
Cuban exiles and some right-wing extremists in some sectors of the
our youth the independence movement and its
organization is has been the victim of more than 125 armed attacks in the last
four years firearms bomb attacks
etcetera far from having doubts about the
participation of the cia in these attacks we have positive evidence of
such participation we have publicly denounced these organizations for
his name as the front of the chair in the case of Cuban exiles we have
publicly denounced that the man was Sergio Ramos- Cuban exile and employee
Government is the link of the cia in our country that coordinates the actions
of these underground groups with mr freddy valentine mr valentine
is the person responsible for coordinating some sectors of the youth that
we spoke before belonging to the new progressive pro statesman party
and the group known as jhon americas for freedom
[Music]
do not
fans are in shape
per se
from westford and after sun in chubut monday leaving look who they were
two additional aspects about it number one no one has been charged and
convicted of these attacks, the last of which was the placement of a
bomb in an illegal public act of the Puerto Rican socialist party on
last January 11 where two workers died and number two this activity
it is not directed exclusively against the pro-independence organizations all
the Latin American consulates whose governments have reestablished relations
diplomats with Cuba have been attacked with bombs in the case of the infiltration
enter the leftist organizations and the creation of organizations
divisionist ghosts and provocative groups
We have found a more direct participation of the FBI in Puerto Rico without
exclude the more sophisticated participation of the and
do not
of amusement so that your wifi how many people are there
nothing explore demonstrates this type of expressions from there finally
we want to denounce an intelligence operation that at this moment
develops the cia in our country against the union movement
i
first we want to cite a very brief part of an article recently
published by professor wilfredo mattos who appeared in the newspaper
daily clarity
we say the article should study the experiences of others
countries where the central intelligence agency has operated in the movement
union we can take an example recently offered in the book the
politics of heroin insalud southeast asia
leave mike mccoy the place refers to france the year 1947 the french cgt
was leading a general strike that had practically paralyzed the entire
country the communist party
it was the party with the greatest influence within the oil immediately after
sectors belonging to the socialist party began the strike
French non-Marxist Leninist social democratic party
he excluded himself from the cgt forming a new central called workers' power according to
with mccoy's quotes about division director tomás breide
international news of the cia that appeared on May 20, 1967 in the edition of the
evening post workshop the company was backing this group called power
worker and also linked in some way to the French socialist party
and then after a period of serving as a source, the paths of the
bridge for the court
sporting in the cold war center
international
later the professor mato continues in the same article wondering are we
perhaps we in Puerto Rico- immune to the actions of the chair there is no
given conditions of our country so that with the development of the movement
worker for the chair to consider dissociative actions in that area
serving the interests of American capitalism and the bourgeoisie of the
people's party and the so-called new progressive party all over the world who
know the labor movement in Puerto Rico and the growth that is
experienced in the past years should conclude the above new leaders
unions are emerging working together with old union leaders
who have remained true to the interests of the working class
deterioration
of the capitalist projects in the colony it is evident
and the working class accelerates its struggle a party of the working class arises
with new structures and unions and parties come together in an effort
to increase the capacity of the workers against in the fight
against the employers of course we are referring in
the union plane to the labor movement min
in this professional setting
because then it is good to take advantage of the eggs after living well
workman
experiences
again of English stoner the projections in classes and
wishing you excellent your web net work english by day you are missing extraction and
instigating trade unions in cash in crystals capable of activating this bank
and turn on the qwest river in front of network management
here we want to refer to the fact that the chair's attempts to divide the
trade union movement and minimize the influence of the socialist party
Puerto Rican among said movement has had the full support of the press
commercial as a matter of fact there is more than one so-called journalist linked to
the agency in the development of this operation at this precise moment
we are studying the possibility of the involvement of the
in the current goal of creating a
union central parallel to the united labor movement this is an objective of the
Latin American workers' confederation being driven by its
representative in Puerto Rico - a Cuban exile recently arrived from
Venezuela
is the state of affairs and here comes what takes flight
there are other aspects and angles of the chair that we have not been able to cover in a
activity like this in a presentation like the
that we have been able to do is also very
difficult for us to follow every step of the agency is difficult if not impossible
even for experts, however, I can assure you that when we
we are talking about the activities of the cia in our country we are talking about something
that we have probably studied very little but that we feel a lot
That is why all of us who fight for social change in Puerto Rico are
constantly in one way or another in contact or colliding with activities
of the cia we are not in conditions all the time to decipher
these activities but most of the time we detect them
we are pressing those of activision
Activision of Sampling the Outside Stepdad
level two bases swallowed our current tension by technically locating contact
October 9 million votes of the spd October after it does not detect
our colonial situation like the colonial situation of any other
country in the world is an attack on world peace the activity of the xi in port
rich to the extent that it represents these attacks on world peace constitutes
turn activities against stability
and of world peace we would like to end our intervention
deeply thanking the sponsors of this important
activity the opportunity that we have been given to offer this presentation
we are very aware of the importance of the activity
that we are carrying out today
if there are reports proposed walker facebook is automatically the
search for answer from
expansion
for more information and extension of shenzi contact center for national
security studies want want it and merlo in the north west
washington says used sense after being several days
in our america